[Music]
This is the first time I've actually set
myself a challenge in a very long time.
You know, like I I have little small
goals every single week, but uh this was
this was a big goal. So 300 kg which is
the first time I've done triple body
weight squat with sleeves
uh in many years since I've been 40.
I've done it in wraps but just not in uh
not in sleeves. So I believe today's the
day and every session I've been coming
and speaking to you guys and talking
through my session. Um today uh I just
feel different. Um this is how it used
to be when I trained for competition
which was I've just come in and uh just
focus for the session. So, I got to try
and keep my my focus high, but my heart
rate low uh and not waste too much
energy warming up and stay as calm as
possible through all the warm-ups. Uh
going up in 25 kg jumps. So, starting
with a barbell, then 80, then 25 kilos.
So, so 25 kilos all the way up will take
me to 280 will be my last warm-up set.
Uh and that's the number where I'll know
whether I've got 300 or not, which I
won't really know. Uh 280 will be hard
and 300 will be hard whether I get it or
not. So I am nervous for the session. I
do believe I've got it. Um but this is
kind of like I've peaked to
this. So uh yeah, focus this session.
You're going to see all my warm-up sets.
I'm going to try and do the exact same
thing every single time I approach the
bar. And uh then when I hit my top set,
then I'll chill out and I'll be able to
speak more to you guys.
Thank you.
[Music]
What?
[Applause]
Come on.
Come on. Come on.
Come
on. Come
on. Come on.
How does it feel?
Feels hard but but but feels hard but
feels right. Feels how it should.
[Applause]
[Music]
Come on.
All right,
partner. Keep on rolling, baby. You know
what time it is.
[Applause]
[Music]
All right.
Go home now everyone. Day off. Day off.
After the heavy was it was all
heavy. [__]
So good. Good one. [__] You know what,
Alex? Every week I haven't had anyone
lining me up. Yeah, you are awesome. I I
felt it every single top set. Yeah, cuz
these shoulders very much over Okay.
This should this shoulder's super tight.
So every every top set, every week I've
come out and gone oop and I've come out
and just did it but just on my head. So
I was like
I didn't want to tell you anything
different like can you line me up and
you go what do you but you knew anyway.
And then when you did I'm like all right
[__] thank god because I every week I've
been off and I know I'm off. It was very
off. I was like I can't let go. Good.
Thank you, bro. Thank you, Alexander.
Nice. Appreciate it, brother. Nice work.
We'll see you. Good to be back there,
eh? Yeah, it's good to be back to 300
kilos triple body weightight squat. Not
bad for an oldtimer, but um still got to
train now. So,
today we're doing top set back top set
back down set. So, unfortunately,
um we don't get to go home immediately
after that. I've got to do two sets of
three and then we get to go home. So,
um, the formula is, uh, one by one and
then 2x3 on 80%. So, 80% of that is 240
kg. So, I've got to do two sets of
three. As much as I would love for that
session to be
over. Um, yep. Set number one is uh 240
for a
triple. Let me tell you, these sets kind
of like a bit of adrenaline dump. You
know, it's a lot of excitement for the
top set. And then you come on, it's like
60 kilos less. So, in theory, it should
be easy, right? But then when I unrackck
it, it's going to be like, "Get me out
of here, man. Get me out of here, man."
But I won't get out of here. I'll go
down and up three times. Let's do
[Applause]
it. All
right. Come on. Come
on. Come on.
Come
on. Come and line me up, Alexander, if
you don't mind, please,
bro. Ah, you don't need to stay there.
That's
fine. Three reps, bro.
Thank you.
Thank you. Yeah. Two more. No, no, no.
How dare
you come in here and demand me to do
extra sets that I didn't have to. It's
two by three. It's one by one. That's
the rules. It's one by one. Two by
three.
Did you see how hard that first rep was?
That was as hard as a 300.
Well, you
doesn't matter. It's like 60 kilos less.
heavy.
It's so heavy. But like, think about it.
Last week I did 260 by 5. Do you
remember what I told you last week? 260
by 5 equals 300 by 1. And then guess
what I did this week? Yeah, I did 300 by
one.
Maybe maybe you
know you can never say really. That
definitely felt like it was my limit
today, but I definitely have confidence
to continue to improve. You know, that's
a 10 kilo jump.
You think that move better than you can
walk
in? Do I think it moved better than the
290?
No, I never did 295. Oh, we did 290.
Yeah. I jumped 10 kilos this one. Yeah.
Yeah. So, I've been going 50 cuz
remember 295 isn't a number. Yeah. So,
290 and then it's like
um let's uh let's just skip that whole
295 process. Let's not and say we did.
You know what I mean? Have you ever
heard that saying before? Let's not and
say we did. Yeah. That's what we did
just then.
Unfortunately, executive decision one
back down set only.
Um, call it what you want, bitching out,
I don't know, maybe. But I'll tell you
now, I feel a slight strain in my
adductor. Um, it's nothing bad, but it's
one of those things where sometimes
people go, uh, you know, I injured
myself or I strained or I tore a muscle
or something like that. It's like, okay,
what did you feel? And then they say
things like, well, the set before it
felt tight. You know what I mean? It's
like, oh, if you only listen the set
beforeh anyway. So, that's what I'm
doing. I'm listening. Do I have my mic
on? Yeah.
Um, to be fair, top set of 300 and then
one back down set of 240 for a triple.
Um, is that enough for me to improve?
Yeah, it is. Like for me to miss out on
that second set, it would have been nice
to accumulate a little bit of extra
volume. Uh, that would be really nice,
but at the same time, um, yeah, I I
don't think I will come in next week
weaker because I didn't do the second
set. Uh, in fact, maybe I'm saving
myself. Um, but I'm not going to quit
totally right now. What I'm going to do
is add some lowcost volume to that mix
and do little bit of hamstring curls.
Um, and then that's that's it. That's
the session. So anyway, let's go back to
um the whole idea of the top set back
down set. Um, it's a strength protocol
that I love to introduce to people that
decide kind of like last minute that
they want to maybe compete or test their
max. So a lot of the times uh people do
a lot of rep work in their training and
you know you make your calculations like
I did last week how I said 260 by 5
equals 300 by one right but it doesn't
always so 5 gives you the is the
potential to be able to lift 300 for one
but you need to develop the skill to do
the heavy single because it's kind of
like a very different energy system uh
different type of mentality um yeah it's
very different feeling right So top set
back down set. So if all you do is lots
of volume and you want to test your max
um introduce the top set back down set
method. So what that is a top single
with back down uh rep work. So either
you know I say uh you can do a top
single and then and then like three to
five reps is back down work. Now here's
a few statistics for you. If you want to
get strong you need to lift heavy
weights. How heavy? A lot of the
research says over 80% of your one rep
max. Right? So when you do a lot of uh
you know your rep work, does it make you
stronger? Yeah, kind of. But it doesn't
have a huge carryover or the same motor
pathways to what you're doing on your
heavy single. Which is why if you want
to get good at practicing a heavy single
or if you want to get good at at a one
rep max, you need to practice very very
very heavy weight. Now the problem with
this is going very heavy is very
fatiguing. I'm going to take this off
because they're quite uncomfortable.
Going very heavy is very fatiguing. So
that's why, you know, if you do the top
set, um, you got to think of a higher RP
for the top set. And then we reduce the
RP. So technically, for three reps, I
should be able to do about 90% of my
max. I don't want to do 90% of my max.
That would have been 270. Like I could
have definitely done 270 for a triple
had I been fresh. Last week I did 265.
So I should be able to do, you know, 90%
for a triple. But it's a submaximal
triple. That's what that's where you
accumulate a little bit more volume
that's easier to recover from. Right?
So, that's what I like to do. Top single
and then and then you drop it down to
80% of that. And you can do, you know,
two to two to three sets of three to
five reps, right? Uh every week I've
been doing two sets of three. Uh but
this week, this is my last week and, you
know, and I've peaked my number and and
I'm here. So, uh, doing one set of
three, one back down set of three is,
uh, yeah, I forgive myself. Do you know
what I'm saying? Anyway, hope you
enjoyed that session. I'm sorry I didn't
talk too much. I was a little bit nerv
Well, I'm nervous every session when I
go heavy. Uh, but anyway, I was very
nervous for that one and I really didn't
want to miss that one. Uh, but we got
it. So, thank you guys uh for watching.
Um, next phase. You know what I got to
do? I've been neglecting my deadlift.
So, my next stop is going to be um yeah,
310 kilogram deadlift. I'm not saying
I'll get that this week or next week. Uh
I got 300 a couple of weeks ago without
even training. So, I think I might do a
little bit of skill work. I'll make you
guys a few videos on deadlift and the
thought process behind my lifting
technique for a deadlift. Uh and as well
as my programming. So, a lot of the
times I don't go heavy squats and heavy
deadlifts in the same week because
they're both very fatiguing lifts. So,
now that I've peaked my squat, I can now
start backing off my squat um and and
you know do maintenance work. I will
never stop my squats, but I'll do
maintenance work. I won't push as hard
as my squat so that I have a little bit
more energy to focus on my deadlift. So,
that's what's up next. Stay tuned for
that and I'll see you guys next time.
Bringing back a deadlift day. Yeah,
we're going to have an entire deadlift
day which I'll still squat on the
deadlift day, but the priority will be
conventional
deadlift. Stay tuned. That's coming.